it's called diorama um and really what
we were trying to what we realized in
building online exhibitions was that we
can't totally build an entire world in
something that's easily accessible
visible all around the world
and it loads really quickly and cleanly
on any device we have technological
appearance to this
the digital divide is really strong so
but instead what we can do is we can
present a diorama a small window into a
larger world and that's really what this
show is all about is giving
entry points and access points to the
larger world building practices of the
artists who are included in the show
um
and so before you know before we
continue um i thought that i was
wondering if don you could give us a
little bit of background on new art city
as a tool kit uh and how the
i won't say platform uh operates
sorry john one second i think you're
muted
there we go try that again
um yeah just want to say it's great to
be working with gray area again for the
second year in a row to present their
festival as well as several of their
exhibitions throughout the year
um so yeah so new art city it's it's a
website and it's really a toolkit for
artists working in to build and work in
3d so you can bring in whatever kind of
multimedia files that you've got upload
them and arrange them in a 3d space
um and the idea is that this is this is
a tool kit that's accessible to artists
and you can build and present your work
in the kind of format and the setting
that you imagine like the best possible
setting for your work that you just
create yourself
um
and yeah we're always accepting new
proposals and submissions we have a
proposal form on our site so you can
easily get in touch and tell us what you
want to do and then we'd send it over
space to you
and it's just like a regular content
management system where you upload your
your stuff and then you work with it
in the in the toolkit
we've been going for about a year and a
half now we started in march of 2020 and
we have around 70 shows launched and
many many more that are
kind of quietly below the surface um
so yeah we love to work with
any artist who wants to reach out and
especially with
universities students
organizations like greyer such a great
example of an organization that's really
made
like the most use of
new york city made the most of the
toolkit
so yeah i want to pass it back to you ed
thanks so much john i just screen shared
a little bit of the site so you can
check out what it looks like um
and now i want to jump in and start
actually showing you the exhibition um
anyone who's in the audience right now
you can go to
newark.city that's
newark.city
and click on diorama to come inside the
environment of the space and tour around
it with us
um i'm just going to load it up right
here
and i'll give you a little and we'll
walk through some of the rooms and the
spaces within the exhibition um i'm
really excited that today here with me
uh uh we have jeremy couillard and
schwabenoti two of the artists from the
show uh give a little wave uh scotlandi
and jeremy um thank you so much for
being here today um we're going to keep
this kind of kind of uh we're going to
keep this kind of informal today i'm
going to go through full bios and give
more information on and everybody during
the main book of the festival that's
coming up this week you can head to
greyarea festival dot io to check out
the full lineup
i really encourage everyone to sign up
and become a member for grey area so
that you can also get access to our
video lounges
the video lounges will be our special
environment for the festival the full
festival will be live streamed right in
there um and you can come and interact
with myself my co-curators the artists
and the gray area team so we hope to see
you i hope to see you guys in there uh
over the course of the festival um and
with that um i'm just going to jump
right into the show
so as i um
so again as i said you can head to
newark.city in your web browser if you
want to come and jump in the show with
us
we've got uh this is my screen here i
hope you can see the link if you have
any issues finding the specific show um
and here we go
for whatever reason
um
[Music]
what we attempted to do was recreate
something similar to something you might
see at the museum of natural history in
new york the diorama has been an exhibit
an exhibiting technique throughout the
ages that has uh perpetuated stereotypes
it has perpetuated colonialist ideals um
and patriarchal structures uh as well as
uh upheld racist and other damaging
tropes in the past and so with this
exhibition we wanted to toy with the
idea of diorama not only as something
that points to a larger world and helps
us to
understand
something much larger but also critique
the
technology of display as it has been
used to harm so many different people
over the ages uh in museum spaces um
this so this is kind of you know how the
so you can see our little sculpture
garden on the outside followed and each
of the different works in this garden
will teleport you to a different room um
here in front of me i work by julie
chang for instance um
and you know each different area
represents a different microcosm of
something that we hope to to help you to
we hope to lead you into uh please feel
free to explore the exhibition uh jump
through the portals and dive through the
different rooms that we have on offer
i can see a bunch of people uh
in the room with me represented by
little triangles uh flying around
um
and uh without further so sami do you
want to talk a little bit about um some
of the environments that you've made in
here um and
how you were thinking about implementing
this idea this idea of diorama that i
that i brought to you
sure um well i i don't have that much
experience with 3d modeling to be honest
i've been doing this for like six months
i've just like figured out a couple of
tricks and i was like seeing if they
would work
and sort of
i don't know i i made a completely
different other exhibition before
like i don't know i think like two weeks
before we
uh or like two or three weeks earlier
there was like this room was just
completely different
um
so but like
i i think um
yeah i i was really work trying to see
like what other people were doing and
there was definitely like a theme of
water
and they were like i was looking into
like
i was trying to sort of filter back the
insights from what i was seeing
elsewhere and make it so it was like a
congress space so like originally it was
a forest and there were a bunch of
galleries
all around it that were all different
and like
shifting in shape but it got like really
confusing um
and so
i made this animated forest that i liked
um
and then i realized it like if you made
it i was huge and walking around it was
really fun but it was again kind of
disorienting but once you make it really
small
it's like really cute and fun and this
sort of like
yeah like recursion where you where you
alter the scale of something is
something that like
really fascinates me i really like in in
the piece that i included in fact
there's a
there's a miniature of the gallery
inside of one of the galleries inside of
that miniature of course is another
miniature and so on um
[Music]
yeah i don't know
no it's really beautiful and i think
that's that's really helpful in kind of
thinking through this idea of microcosms
and macrocosms and the connection to
worlding that runs through throughout
the festival um
and it's it's you know the way you
played with scale here with the small
trees uh the small josh of trees and
cactuses on this desert landscape uh
meanwhile you have the massive towering
figure of uh les musume by hisoquan here
it's quite clever um and really fun to
to explore
um
since we're right here uh we're right at
the portal to scalwanati's room um
and
yeah
sorry about that guys
um i'm having a screen share moment um
sweet
oh the joys of virtual
virtual technology
[Music]
here we go
so here we are in the lobby space uh
right at the portal to uh scalwanati's
room
we have a series of containers of
canisters with different colored
blossoms floating inside them um this
this uh sculptural work comes from a
larger machinima uh produced in second
life by escalante what's going on do you
want to talk a little bit about the film
that these canisters come from and what
they represent
can you hear me
yes okay sorry about that
um
oh
i'm not this so i made a movie
a machina emma called
she falls for ages
and she falls for ages is a sci-fi
retelling of the hadenoshoni creation
story
hadoneshoni is iroquois for those of you
don't know we've just restarted in the
last few years using our own name for
ourselves
and
in this story
it's got many versions
but central to all of them
is well first of all the fact that it
takes place in a place beyond the
heavens aka sky world and on in sky
world or on sky world is a tree the
celestial tree
um which is figures prominently in a lot
of our beadwork and is talked about all
the time and here you see it my version
of it um in one story it says it bears
many different fruit and another story
it says it its blossoms light the world
and so that's where i got the idea to
have glowing blossoms
um
and as well
if the stories that i've always heard
sky world looks like pre-contact
iroquois
um so there are you know wooden
longhouses and people wear
buckskin clothing and there's clay plots
and i was like what if sky world was
another planet really and what if it
like looked super futuristic
uh and so that's what i wanted to have
happened in sky world um and then so i
made that movie and you can go see it at
scalwanary.com
and it's like about 20 minutes long
but then i made a prequel just like a
one minute seriously long machinima and
um
in it i imagined
oh i didn't tell you a whole bunch of
stuff you have to watch the whole movie
to get the prequel i guess
anyway i don't want to talk too long but
the canisters or the vats i'm not sure
what to call them i have we never named
them but they um
i put those in another machinima and you
can see inside each one is a blossom as
though they were being developed because
the idea that i imagined in sky world
was that the people of sky world who are
brilliant botanists developed an energy
producing light producing tree over
thousands of years of careful
cultivation
so that's this is a slice of sky world
um just a very simple
um
kind of nod to the set uh that we had in
uh in the movie the tree is a central
element of that set we have the same
floor in that set we have a pink sky
pink atmosphere in that set
and um
and so i put the canisters around them
because i thought it would be a really
nice installation and i believe you can
click on something like maybe the tree
and you can actually go and see more
parts of the set you wouldn't actually
be on the set but you would be at aptek
island
aboriginal territories in cyberspace is
a research creation network that i
co-founded with my partner jason lewis
and we
um we have had our our cyberspace
headquarters and second life on aptek
island for a number of years already and
we've developed it in such a way that
you can go visit it of course 24 7.
on fridays
i have we have research assistants
jason's a professor so some of his
research
assistants are in world to greet you
show you around give you a tour you
could be like where's the rest of this
uh she falls rages set and i'll show you
i got i could talk for ages so i'm going
to try not to do that but if you have
any questions if anyone has any
questions i'll be here for a while
yeah everyone come join us in the video
lounges and we'll go through a q a and
we'll chat and we'll talk all about the
show um
[Music]
this is such a beautiful piece and it's
so meaningful to be able to include this
here um you know again as you know you
said this piece is currently posed in on
ab tech island in second life um and
what we tried to do here again was
create a small diorama that leads to a
larger world so we encourage you as you
explore the show to click the link go
through to the larger universes that
artists have created um and please
see these works in their native virtual
context this is just a small diorama of
something much much larger and much more
expensive um
wow it's so beautiful i mean scott and
adi uh
how
um i know that you have some open hours
in ab tech is there a good time for
people to come and visit
yes thank you for asking uh every friday
uh from 1 30 to 3 30 eastern standard
time is when there are staff there to
give you a tour yeah but otherwise
people are welcome to come anytime
wonderful yeah i encourage everyone to
check it out second life is a really
beautiful and rich ecosystem that um has
been a stalwart in online communities
for well over a decade maybe even two
now um and it's just a really special
place to get to you know a window into
your into your work and your your
community so thank you so much
um
i'm going to load up now we have another
artist with us here jeremy cuiard um who
i'm who jeremy you know i've told you
this so many times i've been a huge fan
of your work forever your video games
make me laugh make me cry i've spent
hours and hours and hours of my life
playing them and uh i've been wanting to
you know i've been wanting to you know
work with you and do a different kind of
interactive installation for forever um
so this is a real a real treat for me
uh cool you want to introduce yourself
really quick yeah can you all hear me
am i muted
yes perfectly
oh you hear me okay you're good i'm like
i've been on zoom all day at work for
work i'm a professor we have meetings
all day so i've just like used to zoom
in now like a bit zonked so sorry
um hi i'm uh jeremy couliard i'm an
artist awesome
game designer
um and yeah wade thank you so much for
the kind words i'm super excited about
this festival it looks really cool
um and what else did you ask me
no i wanted you to
before i jumped right in i was one
before you jump right in i was wondering
if you could um
tell us a little bit about the room
first it has kind of a
a strange title um i don't know if you
can tell us about that
uh yeah um
let's see so i mean the room is is
designed with a lot of assets from just
different video games i've been working
on
some of it is from my last game fuzz
dungeon wade which i think you played
recently it came out in june
um
but those assets were a little too
large file size wise so i started using
a lot of assets from a current project
i'm working on where i'm building out a
city
and
what can i say i you know
i guess i i'm thinking a lot about the
kind of world building i do is um
i think about the world building we do
in our heads automatically
to kind of like deal with reality um in
these kind of like subconscious worlds
that we uh
build up that are kind of just like an
amalgamation of all the crazy
happening uh throughout our entire lives
so i end up getting these kind of like
chimeric
weird monsters that sort of look like
cartoons or video games i played when i
was a kid
and i'm just creating a world that you
can kind of explore that's sort of like
being inside
my head i guess
um and the title is um
i was just wondering i mean like nobody
ever deals with a
vampire's breathing
like we know that you can kill a vampire
with a steak or with like a garlic or a
cross but like
what would happen if they just went
underwater and didn't ever come up like
would they die
and it's just these kinds of like
worlds that we built in our head that
where the logic is not so fleshed out
if that makes sense um which it never is
because we as humans just don't make a
lot of sense you know um
yeah
we we do a lot of absurd things that we
just don't realize like how crazy the
world is yeah
i think i'm on a delay by the way
no that's okay we you know bandwidth is
real it's one of the protocols of our
world that we need to deal with um and
it's you know again i'm a part of the
part of the the whole point of this
entire festival um so just to go back
the title of the room is can vampires
drown to death um and that's a really
good question um
i don't know the answer to but maybe by
the way
oh that's good to know
okay good to know i've never seen a deal
with i just watched the jim jarmusch
vampire movie i think that's why i
thought of it
oh my gosh so here we are in in your
room for folks
who are in new york city and listening
in go to as you walk into the exhibition
walk forward and left and find the deer
portal the deer portal looks just like
this um but here we are in the forest
these deer are so funny i think they're
like they're just so silly um and crack
me up
um and you know as we move through this
part of the exhibition there are small
narrative pieces um throughout um again
as i said this is just one small piece
of a larger world and i really encourage
you to go to jeremy's itch.io page where
you can download his interactive game
pieces
and there you can get kind of the full
story uh but it's really special to have
this this small window i love this kind
of um
you know like
like uh
he's a yogi the kind of meditating guy
um
kind of doing his little here it's
pretty funny
yeah all the um there's like little
videos
there uh that's long island city
and i did that like
uh go back in time and google maps and
it was just crazy how much it's changed
i think it's one of the fastest growing
cities in
maybe north america but it's just it's
where i work and i work at a community
college and i and i just think like who
is this change for it's not for any of
the people who live there
and it's and it's just so funny to like
build real estate just for speculation
rather than for people to live in like
what a hillary like what the hell
that's such a weird
very human concept it's just so absurd
yeah i mean it's
really striking to see these images
knowing it but you you kind of place
them in different locations throughout
the install and they're quite jarring
you see them and you're kind of not sure
what you're looking at it takes a few
minutes
a few seconds before you really
understand um
you know what's happening in these in
these different locations
and i mean for you
what
like what is it when you're walking
through long island city you know irl
what is it what does it feel like to you
now
it feels very like oppressive
just like
there's these changes that are happening
and i i
they're not for me or anybody i know
they're for mysterious outside forces
that i don't
want to have anything to do with to some
extent you know um so it feels bad i
guess you know
but it's just a trend
quite isolating
yeah yeah
i love this quote so this is a small
small diorama room um you know inside of
the installation um and i love this line
can you imagine karl marx taking a
and looking at reddit on his phone um
hey maybe nice to see you in
can you here this is just too
um it really cracks me up um
and
i wanted you know you have these kind of
pithy
hilarious like you know kind of
disingenuous but also really cutting uh
snippets throughout um and
i'm wondering are these quotes that you
found are these kind of things that you
ponder in the shower or while you are
taking the and looking at it
they just come you know it's just those
things you got it it's just like those
moments in your day when you're just
like
not looking at a screen maybe and your
brain can kind of wander a little bit um
and it's just that you know just shower
thoughts and yeah waiting in line at
costco or whatever
thinking about how weird the world is
well the absurd is something that you
know of course runs throughout your work
i mean where else could you find this
four-legged duck alien creature
with frog eyes i think
uh
you know
and what it like you know it it feels
like you know you express yourself
through the absurd
in such clear ways i know that sounds
like an oxymoron but
it feels true
thank you i'm wondering you know how
what does it take to harness
that language that language of the
absurd to you know express these really
deep
but almost indescribable feelings about
this crazy crazy life and world that we
live in
i mean i just just from living in the
world and thinking about it i guess you
know um i'm doing a midnight moment
right now in times square so i've been
going to times square a lot at midnight
uh to watch my art on like 80
80 monitors
and that like i i don't know that seems
just so fitting for what i do it's just
like this total absurdity of just all
these
tours from all over the world and kids
that come down from the bronx to like
you know
hang out and like dance together and
like
then just like you know naked cowboy or
whatever elmo people you know
um and then the monitors and people are
just trying to sell you
things and banks advertising
it's just such a wild world and yeah
there's the guy you like
my absolute favorite part of the whole
installation it's the teeny tiny guy
a weird own cow's butthole who has a
t-shirt that says depression oh i'm
right in there don has been coming
through the downfall
it's it's so funny and like
to also you know to me like the
absurdity of what it feels like to be
alive i mean what it feels like to be
depressed it's a such a stupid feeling
and sometimes you just feel like you
know you feel like this little guy
giant feeling throughout the butthole
it's just
it just feels so true you know yeah but
i've always really admired that about
you
thank you
yeah it's like it's like
it's never so simple as just being
depressed right it's like you can be
depressed but also
you have to remember how strange and
wonderful in a way life is also so it's
like it's really like
life is always
two different things all the time
or something or you know it's never one
thing
[Music]
all around the country crows are
learning to play guitar and forming
christian death metal bands where do we
go from here and how can we become crows
um
understand this you really gotta
get into
these pieces and
experience jeremy's larger narratives
and then you end here on the rooftop uh
with the with the witch uh swimming
through the long island city
pool she's just having a great time um
waiting for everyone else to jump in
um
you know it's it's i've always really
appreciated you know the way that you
you know express yourself and you
express these things about feelings and
you know there's two things that really
come to mind that connect to the larger
impetus for this show you know one being
the connection to
the fact that we live in bodies um and
we have certain biological and socially
constructed protocols that come along
with that one of them being feelings and
how we express them and the way we feel
and you know having to live within a
certain kind of world that is so many
different things at the same time and i
think that the absurdity in your work
you know really speaks to that really
poignantly um at the same time um
i at the same time there's the way that
your work takes a holistic view of the
world um also really speaks to this idea
of worlding and this idea that we can't
look at the world as black or white we
can't look at it as utopian or dystopian
we have to really you know not to be
corny but we really have to
understand the full scale of grayness
the gray area uh you know
um and
the complex with the simple take the
good with the bad um because we can't
extricate those things um from each
other and you know i think that
through looking at that complicatedness
that
that complexity um
we find meaning and i've always found
meaning in your work uh in that way um
it's been really interesting
really well too
thank you okay
you want to say or you want to point out
in this space while i'm flying around i
mean no i think you've said it very
beautifully
thank you
you know we snuck into all the nooks and
literal literal crannies yes yeah that's
great i'm going to turn off my
cool
screen share
um and uh you know matt if you want to
bring up anybody else who's still who's
still here with us
um
you know thank you everyone for for
being here for the exhibition opening
we're going to do tons more of
activations of the exhibition come on
back uh this sunday uh afternoon we're
going to do a
a deep dive into the whole show take you
room by room artwork by artwork
and get a little bit more in depth this
is just to give everybody a little taste
and we hope that before sunday you take
some time and explore the show yourself
um
at this point you know we're at about 30
we're just over 30 minutes dawn sammy
and do you want any last words about the
show before we kick off the after party
in the video lounges
it was it was a huge effort and this was
just our amazing show that came together
and it's so amazing to be able to
feature these artists from around the
world especially
on a in a virtual site that everybody in
the world can visit so
absolutely um and one thing that i
failed to mention at the beginning due
to my uh moment of uh technical
technological collapse um this show was
co-produced with nikki sulkin and
victoire pumadere
they have spent countless hours with me
build you know doing fixing objects
decimating shapes and getting the show
together um so thank you guys so so much
um i also failed to produ the
acknowledgements that i wanted to give
at the beginning of this session um and
you know here at gray area and in san
francisco we are sitting on the unseated
land of the robintic ohlone people
as well as the coastal people of the bay
area um i want to acknowledge that this
is their land and we respectfully um and
gracefully uh you know thank them uh for
their continued stewardship especially
during times of severe drought uh and
fire um and so apologies that i didn't
say that earlier um
thanks everyone for being here we're
gonna hop into the video lounges now
please anybody who's in the show keep
looking around come join us in the
lounge when you're ready we're going to
be hanging out running different
sessions and just having a grand old
time and celebrating the opening of this
absolutely wonderful festival thank you
so much jeremy and uh and scotlandi um
and i will see you guys over there in
just a few minutes did you put the link
somewhere for us to just click through
or is that uh should i go to the email
um
go to the email
and uh we'll get everybody
okay great thanks